# Autogeneration

Autogeneration happens mostly in the `pre-commit` hooks in `/kpops/hooks`.

## Generation scripts and their respective files

### Documentation (`gen_docs/*`)

#### CLI commands (`./kpops/docs/docs/user/references/cli-commands.md`)

Generated by `typer-cli` from the code in `./kpops/kpops/cli/main.py`. It is called with Python's `subprocess` module.

#### Pipeline and defaults example definitions (`./kpops/docs/docs/resources/pipeline-components/` and  `./kpops/docs/docs/resources/pipeline-defaults/`)

Generates example `pipeline.yaml` and `defaults.yaml` for each individual component, stores them and also concatenates them into 1 big pipeline definition and 1 big pipeline defaults definition.


User input

- `headers/*\.yaml` -- The top of each example. Includes a description comment, `type` and `name`. The headers for `pipeline.yaml` reside in the `pipeline-components` dir and the `defaults.yaml` headers reside in the `pipeline-defaults` dir. The names of the files must be equal to the respective component `type`.
- `sections/*\.yaml` -- Each YAML file contains a single section (component attribute) definition. The intention is to keep the minimal set of definitions there from which any component definition can be built. The names of the files must be equal to the respective component `type` and the attribute name. The sections are used for both `defaults.yaml` and `pipeline.yaml` generation and reside in the `pipeline-components` dir.


Generated

- `pipeline-components/dependencies/*`
Cached information about KPOps components
    - `pipeline_component_dependencies.yaml` -- Specifies per component which files in the `sections` dir should be used for the `pipeline.yaml` generation.
    - `defaults_pipeline_component_dependencies.yaml` -- Specifies per component which files in the `sections` dir should be used for the `defaults.yaml` generation.
    - `kpops_structure.yaml` -- Specifies the inheritance hierarchy of the components and what sections exist in each component.
- `pipeline-components/*\.yaml` -- All single-component pipeline definitions and one big (complete) `pipeline.yaml` that contains all of them.
- `pipeline-defaults/*\.yaml` -- All single-component defaults definitions and one big (complete) `defaults.yaml` that contains all of them.